Create django apache deploy article (#16)
XAP-Software/blog.xap.group: _posts/2022-05-12-django_apache_deploy.md

---
layout: post

> title: How to deploy Django project to Apache?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to deploy a Django project using Apache?
```

categories: [Python, Django, Apache]
author_github: nevermore17
author: Verbin Kirill
---

> You need to do some configuration of Apache and Django before deploying a django project to Apache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to do some configuration of Apache and Django before deploying a django project using Apache.
```

# Install mod-wsgi library

> In first step we need to install `libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3` librariy to let apache and Django communicate. `libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3` is an adapter for running python application in the apache web server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to install `libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3` library to let Apache and Django communicate. `libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3` is an adapter for running python applications on the Apache web server.
```

> ```terminl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```terminal
```

$ sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3

```

# Django configuration

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Install virtual env

> Virtual env allows our project to work without modules conflict of other python projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual env allows our project to work without module conflicts with other python projects. 
```

> To install virtualenv type next command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install virtualenv enter the following command.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```terminal
```

 $ sudo pip3 install virtualenv
```

> Now we can create venv for our project and activate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can create a virtual environment for our project and activate it.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```terminal
```

$ virtualenv env && ./env/bin/activate
```

> After activate venv you need to install all modules for your project and create your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After activating venv, you need to install all the modules for your project and create a project.
```

## Configuration settings.py and static 

> Django requires collect static files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Django requires to collect static files.
```

> ```terminl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```terminal
```

$ python3 manage.py collectstatic 
```

> You need to necessary to register in the `settings.py` file where the folders with static files and media files is located.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to register in the `settings.py` the file where folders with static files and media files are located.
```

```python
# settings.py

 ...

STATIC_URL = '/static/'
STATIC_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'static')

MEDIA_URL = "/media/"
MEDIA_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR,"media")

 ...
```

## Apache configuration

> Create a `djangoproject.conf` file in the `/etc/apache2/sites-available/` directory and set the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `djangoproject.conf` file in the `/etc/apache2/sites-available/` directory and provide the following settings:
```

 - standart host settings

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```apache
```

        ServerAdmin localhost@webmaster
        ServerName server-name
        DocumentRoot /path/to/django/project
        ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
        CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined
```
 - media and static folder settings

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```apache
```

        Alias /static /path/to/django/project/static
        <Directory /path/to/django/project/static>
            Require all granted
        </Directory>

        Alias /media /path/to/django/project/media
        <Directory /path/to/django/project/media>
            Require all granted
        </Directory>
```
- wsgi file settings

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```apache
```

        <Directory /path/to/django/project/my-project>
            <Files wsgi.py>
                Require all granted
            </Files>
        </Directory>
```
- venv settings

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```apache
```

        WSGIDaemonProcess django_project python-path=/path/to/django/project python-home=/path/to/env/folder/env
        WSGIProcessGroup django_project
        WSGIScriptAlias / /path/to/django/project/my-project/wsgi.py
```

In the end you will get the following djangoproject.conf file:

> ```xml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```apache
```

<VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerAdmin localhost@webmaster
        ServerName server-name
        DocumentRoot /path/to/django/project
        ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error.log
        CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access.log combined

        Alias /static /path/to/django/project/static
        <Directory /path/to/django/project/static>
            Require all granted
        </Directory>

        Alias /media /path/to/django/project/media
        <Directory /path/to/django/project/media>
            Require all granted
        </Directory>

        <Directory /path/to/django/project/my-project>
            <Files wsgi.py>
                    Require all granted
            </Files>
        </Directory>

        WSGIDaemonProcess django_project python-path=/path/to/django/project python-home=/path/to/env/folder/env
        WSGIProcessGroup django_project
        WSGIScriptAlias / /path/to/django/project/my-project/wsgi.py
</VirtualHost>
```

> Use this config and restart apache2 service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activate this config and restart apache2 service.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```terminal
```

$ sudo a2ensite testdjango.conf
$ sudo service apache2 restart
```

> 

Reviewer: please remove extra empty rows
